---
layout: post
title: Apache Wicket 8.0.0 released
---
The Apache Wicket PMC is proud to announce Apache Wicket 8.0.0!

Apache Wicket is an open source Java component oriented web application
framework that powers thousands of web applications and web sites for
governments, stores, universities, cities, banks, email providers, and
more. You can find more about Apache Wicket at https://wicket.apache.org

This is the next major release of Apache Wicket. Developers can write
better, smaller code using Java8 lambdas.

Apache Wicket v8.0 reflects over 2 years of development, testing and
feedback from hundreds of knowledgable users, bringing a highly stable,
production ready release of the popular web framework. The release consist
of almost 360 features, improvements and fixes. In accordance with
Semantic Versioning, this major release contains several documented API
breaks. Following the Semantic Versioning standard, future minor
releases of Wicket v8.0 will remain API compatible.

Using this release
------------------

With Apache Maven update your dependency to (and don't forget to
update any other dependencies on Wicket projects to the same version):

{% highlight xml%}
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.wicket</groupId>
    <artifactId>wicket-core</artifactId>
    <version>8.0.0</version>
</dependency>
{% endhighlight%}

Or download and build the distribution yourself, or use our
convenience binary package

 * Source: [8.0.0 source download](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/wicket/8.0.0)
 * Binary: [8.0.0 binary download](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/wicket/8.0.0/binaries)

<!--more-->

Upgrading from earlier versions
-------------------------------

If you upgrade from 8.y.z this release is a drop in replacement. If
you come from a version prior to 8.0.0, please read our Wicket 8
migration guide found at

 * http://s.apache.org/wicket8migrate

Have fun!

— The Wicket team


========================================================================

    The signatures for the source release artefacts:


Signature for apache-wicket-8.0.0.zip:

<div class='highlight'><pre>
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
</pre></div>


Signature for apache-wicket-8.0.0.tar.gz:

<div class='highlight'><pre>
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
</pre></div>


========================================================================

### This Release

#### CHANGELOG for 8.0.0:

