---
layout: post
title: Wicket 6.0.0-beta3 released
---

The Wicket team is proud to announce the third beta release of
the Wicket 6.x series. This release is an intermediary release
just before we give you 6.0.0 final.

There are no more planned API breaks but if you find something
that can be made better now it the time to discuss it! The
next planned release is 6.0.0 final, so speak now or forever
be silenced (or learn to live with it until 7.0.0 comes out).

Any feedback about the new features, their implementation and
their documentation is very welcome!

New and Noteworthy in 6.0.0-beta3
================================

**NOTA BENE:** the use of modules that are marked experimental,
by being part of the sub module 'wicket-experimental', are really
that: experimental. These modules can change, disappear or blow up
your computer without notice and you really use/depend on them at
your own risk.

Wicket Native Websockets
------------------------

A new **experimental** module has been added to Wicket 6 - Wicket
Native WebSocket. This module adds support for using HTML5
WebSockets as you may use Ajax in your Wicket applications.

All you have to do is to add a WebSocketBehavior to your page and from
there on you can receive messages from the clients and push messages
back to them.

At [our wiki](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/0vSoAQ) you may 
find the documentation and a link to a demo application.

If something is not clear feel free to ask your question in the
mailing lists and we will improve the documentation.

Wicket Bootstrap
----------------

The **experimental** modules now contain a new module for integration
with Twitter's Bootstrap. Currently this module only provides a
central way of using the Bootstrap resources. In the future we
will provide proper components and behaviors for the Bootstrap
concepts.

To use this new **experimental** module, add this to your pom:

    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.apache.wicket</groupId>
        <artifactId>wicket-bootstrap</artifactId>
        <version>0.1</version>
    </dependency>

To add Bootstrap support to your pages, add this in the `renderHead`
method:

    @Override
    public void renderHead(IHeaderResponse response) {
        super.renderHead(response);

        Bootstrap.renderHead(response);
    }

This will render a dependency to the Twitter bootstrap CSS and JS files,
including the required dependency to JQuery.

New Wicket Examples
-------------------
We have started an effort to revamp the tried and tested Wicket Examples
and bring them into 2012. The new examples are located in the
**experimental** module.

It is currently a copy of Twitter Bootstrap's design but with Wicket
specific filling.

You can test the examples by running the

    wicket-examples-jar/src/test/java/Start.java

class in the default package.

The examples will feature a component reference with typical use
cases, full examples such as Hello, World, and descriptions of the
code in play.

Wicket Atmosphere
-----------------

Wicket Atmosphere in the experimental modules has seen an upgrade of
the Atmosphere dependency to 1.0.0-beta3. This has caused an
incompatibility with Jetty 7.6.3 (used with Wicket and the examples). To
mitigate this, you need to override either:

 - the dependency on Jetty to 8.1.3 or newer, or
 - the dependency on Atmosphere to 0.9.5 (0.9.6 and 0.9.7 are broken as
   well)

See [WICKET-4656](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/WICKET-4656) for 
more information regarding this issue.

This release
============

 - Check the roadmap  with a list of the major
   goals: [6.0 roadmap](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/WICKET/Wicket+6.0+Roadmap)
 - And the migration guide with all major and some minor changes
   between 1.5.x and 6.x series: [migration guide](http://s.apache.org/wicket-6.0-migration)
 - The Jira changelog of all closed ticket at
   Jira: [changelog](http://s.apache.org/wicket-6.0.0-beta3-changelog)

To use it in Maven:

    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.apache.wicket</groupId>
        <artifactId>wicket-core</artifactId>
        <version>6.0.0-beta3</version>
    </dependency>

If you don’t use a dependencies management build tool then you
can download the full distribution (including source) and build from
source yourself.

Have fun,

The Wicket team!
